>> Brian Holt: We're gonna do Node,
and I think what I'll do is I will
leave the deployment part of this to you,
because this is quite a few steps.
This is gonna show you how to put your
web server out into the world, and
I show you how to do
it on Microsoft Azure.
>> Brian Holt: We're gonna write
a little bit of Node real quick.
So node.js, we've kind of been dancing
around and using it a little bit, but
we're gonna write a web
server really quick.
>> Brian Holt: So historically
JavaScript has been on the client,
it's been a more client oriented thing.
There's a guy names Ryan Dahl that
took Google's Chrome engine, so
they took V8 which is the name of
the thing that actually runs JavaScript.
And they wrapped it and
they connected to a thing called libuv.
They created this thing called Node that
basically allows you to run JavaScript as
a server-side language as opposed
to a client-side language, okay?
So, going, hearkening back to our
example of the pizza place, right?
This allows you to create your own pizza
place that you can serve all these
different clients.
>> Brian Holt: So
one server serves many clients,
that's a good thing to keep in mind.
So what we're gonna do right now is I'm
gonna copy and paste this into a project.
>> Brian Holt: Let's create a new folder.
Node example, and
I'm gonna open this in code.
>> Brian Holt: I'm gonna create a new
file, call it sometimes like server.js.
And I'm gonna paste that in here and
we'll talk about it.
>> Brian Holt: Okay, close that stuff.
First thing to do here, is I'm going to
bring in a things that's called http.
Which is the library inside of Node for
handling connections, right?
So a client reached out to me,
is like, hey I need this thing.
This is the library that
actually is the wiring, right?
Like if this is a pizza place,
this is the telephone, right?
So this is the thing that
people connect to, okay?
Here I go in here and I create a server.
And this function is going to get run
every single time someone calls, right?
This is like the pick up of the phone,
right?
So that's what create server does.
And every time that someone calls I'm
gonna say, hey someone visited this URL.
And, then I'm gonna send back to them
just saying hello, and that's it, and
then it's gonna end.
And, that's gonna start
listening on port 3000,
I'll talk about port just a second but,
let's actually start running this.
Where is my terminal?
>> Brian Holt: Actually,
lets even do this.
So, code has a terminal built into it.
So if I hit Ctrl+Back tick, it pops
up this little thing on the bottom.
This is actually just this the same
terminal that I've been using before.
Wait, can I make this a little bigger?
>> Brian Holt: Okay, yeah, I can't so
I'm gonna make to the terminal but
you could run this here.
I could say node server.js,
that's just too small to read.
>> Brian Holt: So coming back over
here to iTerm, I'm gonna go up one,
I'm gonna go into node example.
And now I'm in here, so
I'm gonna say node server.js and
it's gonna say listening
on http://localhost:3000.
If I open that in my browser, you can
here very small it says hello up there.
So you can see it's actually working,
it's calling my server.
So let's talk about localhost:3000.
Localhost is a alias for
your own computer, right.
So it's saying, please connect to myself,
that's what localhost means.
The :3000 is the port to connect on.
The best analogy that I can make here for
the :3000,
it's like on your TV, where you have
to watching HDMI3 to play the PS4.
Or to be on HDM 4 to be
on the Blu Ray player.
It's like the channel
that you have to be on or
you have to be like on channel
five to watch NBC, right?
:3000 is, there are thousands
of ports on your computer, and
you have to be tuning into the right
one to get the correct one.
Right, does that make sense?
So I could come back over here
to wherever my server is,
and I could say 5500, right, and save.
I have to change that as well.
If I come back over here,
if I refresh this.
Sorry, now I have to restart my server.
>> Brian Holt: Where is my iTerm?
>> Brian Holt: So I come back here,
now this is broken, right?
Because I changed it from
port 3000 to 5500, so
I'd have to come back
over here to change it.
So that's what ports are, okay?
>> Brian Holt: Coming
back here to Node.js,
no one writes Node.js by
using the HTTP directly.
We always do some sort of
framework on top of it.
I don't know anyone that's
writing it directly on top of it.
Typically what we do,
I didn't talk about this either.
If you come here you can see people, or
what URLs are visiting on your server,
right.
So if I come back over here and
say, local host 500.
And I come back and say, some path, right.
It still gets the same response,
but if I come over here,
you can see that the person
visited some path, right?
That's what the URL is.
But what's this strange favicon thing?
Well, the browser every single time that
connects to a web server,
it always requests the favicon.
And the favicon is actually, you see how
there's a little Firefox guy right there?
Or girl, I have no idea,
what the gender is.
Stop gendering me, anyway.
That's what a favicon is,
it's the little tiny thing right there.
So that's what it's requesting and
it's not getting that back, so
it doesn't put anything there.
So that's why there's nothing there.
That's what a favicon is.
That's why you'll see
a bunch of those requests.
>> Brian Holt: Node still uses CommonJS,
that's why I had to do requires http,
import wouldn't work there.
And we didn't talk about req and res.
Let's talk about req and res real quick.
>> Brian Holt: Req, which is short for
request, and Res is short for response.
So req represents,
it's an object representing
everything coming from the request.
And res is everything that you're
going to send back to the user.
Okay and there's just like
a bunch of objects on there.
In fact I think, yeah,
you can see here that code is actually
quite smart about what's on there.
There's a bunch of methods, there's
a bunch of headers that you can see.
Just a ton of stuff that you
can see off of it, okay?
So here I'm getting the req.url,
I'm getting the URL that they visited and
I'm saying res.end.
You have to end your
request to the user and
I'm sending them back
some text saying hello.
Make sense?
So that's where, and req and
res is coming from HTTP.